Create 2023 election documents (#1562)
open-telemetry/community: elections/2023/governance-committee-election.md

# TL;DR

* If you've been nominated or are willing to nominate yourself: check the [charter document](../../governance-charter.md) and confirm you are ready for the commitment. Make sure to provide all necessary information before 13 October 2023 00:00 UTC
* If you are an active community member: confirm that you are on the voters list (see [election announcements issue](https://github.com/open-telemetry/community/issues/1561)) or register yourself before 23 October 2023 00:00 UTC.
* Vote between 23 October 2023 00:00 UTC and 25 October 2023 23:59 UTC via the [voting link](https://vote.heliosvoting.org/helios/elections/1ee70ee4-11ce-11ee-aaf8-0a8c9aac83f9/view)
* Keep being awesome and contributing to the project!

# Vacancies

Current governance committee members (alphabetical order):

* [Alolita Sharma](https://github.com/alolita), Apple, until October 2024
* [Ben Sigelman](https://github.com/bhs), Lightstep, until October 2023
* [Bogdan Drutu](https://github.com/BogdanDrutu), Splunk, until October 2023
* [Daniel Dyla](https://github.com/dyladan), Dynatrace, until October 2024
* [Juraci Paixão Kröhling](https://github.com/jpkrohling), Grafana Labs, until October 2023

> * [Morgan James McLean](https://github.com/mtwo), Splunk, until October 2024

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Morgan McLean](https://github.com/mtwo), Splunk, until October 2024
```

One of two options will be available in the form to prove eligibility:

* GitHub handle
* List either:
  * Your contributions to OpenTelemetry that make you eligible to vote, or
  * Your non-code contributions per the [Members of Standing section of the charter](../../governance-charter.md#members-of-standing): particularly, your relationship to a well-known project that's taken a hard dependency on OpenTelemetry, or your involvement with a well-known organization's adoption of OpenTelemetry as an end-user.

All exemption forms are private. Only the current governance and election committee members will have access to this information. The governance committee will discard the lists one month after the election.

# Vote

> Everyone with voting rights may log into [Helios Voting](https://vote.heliosvoting.org/helios/elections/1ee70ee4-11ce-11ee-aaf8-0a8c9aac83f9/view) using their GitHub account. Voting will be approval voting, where each voter may select up to five candidates. The five candidates with the most votes win the election.

Reviewer 2: Can anyone login & vote with GitHub or only a predetermined list (of eligible members)?

Reviewer 3: The election committee will upload a list of github usernames that are eligible for voting.

Per Helios, voting is entirely private: nobody will know any individual's vote.

# Results

Voting will close on 25 October 2023 at 00:00 UTC. Nominees will be stack ranked. If a nominee becomes ineligible (for instance, if more than three topmost nominees work for the same company), the election committee will skip those nominees and pick the nominee with the next-highest score. The exact scores for each candidate will be public.

# Schedule

| Date                       | Activity                                                                                                                                   |
| -------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| June 2023                  | This document announced                                                                                                                    |

> | {{TODO DATE}}              | Election blog post and call for nominations                                                                                                |

Author: @open-telemetry/otel-elections we need to decide on these dates

| {{TODO DATE}} 23:59 UTC    | End of call for nominations                                                                                                                |
| {{TODO DATE}}              | Nominees ratified, and Governance Committee ensures nominees' commitment                                                                   |
| {{TODO DATE}}              | Preliminary list of nominees announced                                                                                                     |
| {{TODO DATE}}              | List of nominees is finalized on [community](https://github.com/open-telemetry/community) GitHub and advertised via mailing list and Slack |

> | {{TODO DATE}} 23:59 UTC    | Last day to apply for a member of standing exemption                                                                                       |

Reviewer 3: I recommend this being a couple of days before the voting period. While it was uneventful to have it the day before in previous elections, I think it's safer to allow for a buffer...

> | 23 Octoboer 2023 00:00 UTC | Voting period begins                                                                                                                       |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| 23 October 2023 00:00 UTC | Voting period begins                                                                                                                       |
```

# OpenTelemetry 2023 Governance Committee election

Please see **[the list of candidates running in the election here](./governance-committee-candidates.md)**.

This document lays out the 2023 election process per the OpenTelemetry governance committee [charter document](../../governance-charter.md#establishment-of-a-governance-committee) requirements.

This election should fill four seats.

Election schedule:

* 13 October 2023 - final deadline to submit nominations
* 16 October 2023 - official nominees list published
* 23 October 2023 to 25 October 2023 - voting takes place
* 27 October 2023 - results announced

We highly encourage participation in this election cycle to ensure that the community is well-represented by the Governance Committee.

# TL;DR

> * If you've been nominated or are willing to nominate yourself: check the [charter document](../../governance-charter.md) and confirm you are ready for the commitment. Make sure to provide all necessary information before 13 October 2023 00:00 UTC

Reviewer 3: When I read that the deadline is 13 October, my mind registers that I can still submit my application on that date. So, the deadline would be 13 October 2023 23:59 UTC instead?

```suggestion
* If you've been nominated or are willing to nominate yourself: check the [charter document](../../governance-charter.md) and confirm you are ready for the commitment. Make sure to provide all necessary information before 13 October 2023 23:59 UTC
```

* If you are an active community member: confirm that you are on the voters list (see [election announcements issue](https://github.com/open-telemetry/community/issues/1561)) or register yourself before 20 October 2023 23:59 UTC.

> * Vote between 23 October 2023 00:00 UTC and 25 October 2023 23:59 UTC via the [voting link](https://vote.heliosvoting.org/helios/elections/1ee70ee4-11ce-11ee-aaf8-0a8c9aac83f9/view)

Reviewer 3: Can you double-check the dates, verifying it matches Helios?

![image](https://github.com/open-telemetry/community/assets/13387/4cf5d03e-c956-4c11-96a8-7fd8a93f2be8)

* Keep being awesome and contributing to the project!

# Vacancies

Current governance committee members (alphabetical order):

* [Alolita Sharma](https://github.com/alolita), Apple, until October 2024
* [Ben Sigelman](https://github.com/bhs), Lightstep, until October 2023
* [Bogdan Drutu](https://github.com/BogdanDrutu), Splunk, until October 2023
* [Daniel Dyla](https://github.com/dyladan), Dynatrace, until October 2024
* [Juraci Paixão Kröhling](https://github.com/jpkrohling), Grafana Labs, until October 2023
* [Morgan McLean](https://github.com/mtwo), Splunk, until October 2024
* [Ted Young](https://github.com/tedsuo), Lightstep, until October 2023
* [Trask Stalnaker](https://github.com/trask), Microsoft, until October 2024
* [Yuri Shkuro](https://github.com/yurishkuro), Facebook, until October 2023

Five people must be elected in this election, each with two-year terms. Note that five current Governance Committee members end terms as part of this election cycle, though they are welcome to run again for one of the five vacancies.

> After this election and until the next election, the Governance Committee will have nine seats, all of which will be elected positions. Please refer to the [charter document](../../governance-charter.md#establishment-of-a-governance-committee) for more information.

Reviewer 3: It's time to remove this paragraph. It's from a time when we were changing the size of the GC.

All exemption forms are private. Only the current governance and election committee members will have access to this information. The governance committee will discard the lists one month after the election.

# Vote

Everyone with voting rights may log into [Helios Voting](https://vote.heliosvoting.org/helios/elections/1ee70ee4-11ce-11ee-aaf8-0a8c9aac83f9/view) using their GitHub account. Voting will be approval voting, where each voter may select up to five candidates. The five candidates with the most votes win the election.

The election committee will accept late registrations to vote and requests to re-send the voting link via email to [cncf-opentelemetry-governance@lists.cncf.io](mailto:cncf-opentelemetry-governance@lists.cncf.io). We encourage pre-registration to minimize the effort required to run this election.

Per Helios, voting is entirely private: nobody will know any individual's vote.

# Results

> Voting will close on 25 October 2023 at 00:00 UTC. Nominees will be stack ranked. If a nominee becomes ineligible (for instance, if more than three topmost nominees work for the same company), the election committee will skip those nominees and pick the nominee with the next-highest score. The exact scores for each candidate will be public.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Voting will close on 25 October 2023 at 23:59 UTC. Nominees will be stack ranked. If a nominee becomes ineligible (for instance, if more than three topmost nominees work for the same company), the election committee will skip those nominees and pick the nominee with the next-highest score. The exact scores for each candidate will be public.
```
